.Dd 2016-07-01
.Dt EUCTL 1
.Os Eucalyptus 4.3
.Sh NAME
.Nm euctl
.Nd get or set cloud state
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl A\&nr
.Op Fl d | s
.Ar NAME ...
.Nm
.Op Fl nq
.Ar NAME=VALUE ...
.Nm
.Op Fl nq
.Ar NAME=@FILE ...
.Nm
.Fl -dump
.Op Fl -format Cm {raw,json,yaml}
.Ar NAME
.Nm
.Fl -edit
.Op Fl -format Cm {raw,json,yaml}
.Ar NAME
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility retrieves cloud state and allows cloud administrators
to set cloud state.  The state to be retrieved or set is
described using a
.Dq Management Information Base
.Pq MIB
style name, described as a dotted set of components.
.Pp
When retrieving a variable, a subset of the MIB name may be
specified to retrieve a list of variables in that subset.
For example, to list all the dns variables:
.Pp
.Dl $ Nm No dns
.Pp
When setting a variable, the MIB name should be followed by
an equal sign and the new value:
.Pp
.Dl $ Nm No dns.enabled=true
.Pp
To reset a varable to its default value, specify the
.Fl r
option:
.Pp
.Dl $ Nm Fl r No dns.enabled
.Pp
The information available from euctl consists of integers,
strings, and structures.  Structures can only be retrieved
by specialized programs and, in some cases, this program's
.Fl -edit
and
.Fl -dump
options.
.Ss Positional arguments:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar NAME
Output a variable's value.
.It Ar NAME=VALUE
Set a variable to the specified value and then output it.
.It Ar NAME=@FILE
Set a variable to that of the specified file's contents,
then output it.
.El
.Ss Optional arguments:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl A , Fl -all-types
List all the known variable names, including
structures.  Those with string or integer values will
be output as usual; for the structures, the methods of
retrieving them are given.
.It Fl d
Output variables' default values rather than their
current values.  Note that not all variables have default
values.
.It Fl s
Output variables' descriptions rather than their current
values.
.It Fl n
Suppress output of variable names. This is useful
for setting shell variables.
.It Fl q
Suppress all output when setting a variable. This
option overrides the behavior of
.Fl n .
.It Fl r , Fl -reset
Reset the given variables to their default values.
.It Fl -dump
Output the value of a structure variable in its
entirety.  The value will be formatted in the manner
specified by the
.Fl -format
option.
.It Fl -edit
Edit the value of a structure variable interactively.
The value will be formatted in the manner specified by the
.Fl -format
option.  Only one variable may be edited per
invocation.  When looking for an editor, the program
will first try the environment variable
.Ev VISUAL ,
then the environment variable
.Ev EDITOR ,
and finally the
default editor,
.Xr vi 1 .
.It Fl -format Cm {raw,json,yaml}
Use the specified format when displaying a structure.
(default:
.Cm json Ns )
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show a help message and exit without doing anything.
.It Fl U Ar URL , Fl -url Ar URL
The URL of the service to contact.
.It Fl I Ar KEY_ID , Fl -access-key-id Ar KEY_ID
The access key ID to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl S Ar KEY . Fl -secret-key Ar KEY
The secret key to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl -security-token Ar TOKEN
The STS security token to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl -region Ar USER@REGION
The user and/or region name to use when looking up
configuration file data.
.It Fl -debug
Show debugging output when running.
.It Fl -debugger
Launch an interactive epdb or pdb debugger after
encountering
an error.
.It Fl -version
show the program's version and exit
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
The access key ID to use when authenticating web
service requests.  This takes precedence over
.Rl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl I .
.It Ev AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
The secret key to use when authenticating web
service requests.  This takes precedence over
.Fl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl S .
.It Ev EUCA_PROPERTIES_URL
The URL of the service to contact.  This takes precedence
over
.Fl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl U .
.It Ev VISUAL
The editor to invoke when using the
.Fl -edit
option.
.It Ev EDITOR
The editor to invoke when using the
.Fl -edit
option when
.Ev VISUAL is not set.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
.Xr eucalyptus-admin 7
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared in Eucalyptus 4.2.
.Sh NOTES
.Nm
requires access keys and knowledge of where to locate
the web services it needs to contact.  It can obtain
these from several locations.  See
.Xr eucalyptus-admin 7
for more information.
