.Dd 2016-07-01
.Dt EUSERV-DESCRIBE-EVENTS 1
.Os Eucalyptus 4.3
.Sh NAME
.Nm euserv-describe-events
.Nd Show information about service-affecting events
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl f Ar FORMAT
.Sh TECH PREVIEW
.Nm
is a technical preview.  Its name and behavior are subject
to change without notice in future releases.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility retrieves information about service-affecting
events in the cloud.  Events come in the form of a list,
where each event contains one or more of the following
tags:
.Bl -column subject-type foobar
.It id Ta A unique ID for the event
.It message Ta A free-form text description of the event
.It severity Ta The message's severity (FATAL, URGENT,
ERROR, WARNING, INFO, DEBUG, TRACE)
.It stack-trace Ta The stack trace, if any, corresponding
to the event.  The
.Fl s
option is required to make this appear.
.It subject-arn Ta The Eucalyptus ARN of the service
affected by the event
.It subject-name Ta the name of the service affected by the
event
.It subject-type Ta The type of service affected by the event
.It timestamp Ta The date and time of the event's creation
.El
.Ss Optional arguments
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ar FORMAT , Fl -format Ar FORMAT
Print events in a given format, where
.Ar FORMAT
can be one of
.Cm yaml ,
.Cm oneline ,
and
.Cm format: Ns Ar STRING .
See the "OUTPUT FORMATS" section for details about each
format.  When omitted, the format defaults to
.Cm yaml .
.It Fl s , Fl -show-stack-traces
Include the stack-trace tag in events' data.  This is
omitted by default due to its length.
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show a help message and exit without doing anything.
.It Fl U Ar URL , Fl -url Ar URL
The URL of the service to contact.
.It Fl I Ar KEY_ID , Fl -access-key-id Ar KEY_ID
The access key ID to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl S Ar KEY . Fl -secret-key Ar KEY
The secret key to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl -security-token Ar TOKEN
The STS security token to use to authenticate requests.
.It Fl -region Ar USER@REGION
The user and/or region name to use when looking up
configuration file data.
.It Fl -debug
Show debugging output when running.
.It Fl -debugger
Launch an interactive epdb or pdb debugger after
encountering
an error.
.It Fl -version
show the program's version and exit
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
The access key ID to use when authenticating web
service requests.  This takes precedence over
.Rl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl I .
.It Ev AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
The secret key to use when authenticating web
service requests.  This takes precedence over
.Fl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl S .
.It Ev EUCA_BOOTSTRAP_URL
The URL of the service to contact.  This takes precedence
over
.Fl -region
and
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
but not
.Fl U .
.El
.Sh OUTPUT FORMATS
There are several built-in formats, and you can define
additional formats using a
.Cm format:
string, as described below.  Here are the details of the
built-in formats:
.Bl -bullet -width Wd
.It
.Cm yaml
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
events:
- timestamp: {timestamp}
  severity: {severity}
  id: {id}
  subject-type: {subject-type}
  subject-name: {subject-name}
  subject-host: {subject-host}
  subject-arn: {subject-arn}
  message: |-
    {message}
  stack-trace: |-
    {stack-trace}
.Ed
.Pp
This outputs block-style YAML designed to be readable by
both humans and machines.  Tags that are empty or not
defined do not appear in this output at all.
.It
.Cm oneline
.Pp
.Dl {timestamp} {severity} {subject-type} {subject-name} {message}
.Pp
This is designed to be as compact as possible.
.It
.Cm format: Ns Ar STRING
.Pp
The
.Cm format: Ns Ar STRING
format allows you to specify which information you want to
show using placeholders enclosed in curly braces to
indicate where to show the tags for each event.  For
example:
.Pp
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Nm
.Fl f Ar """format:{timestamp} {subject-name} {message}"""
.Ed
.Pp
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr euserv-describe-services 1 ,
.Xr euca2ools.ini 5 ,
.Xr eucalyptus-admin 7
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared in Eucalyptus 4.3.
.Sh NOTES
.Nm
requires access keys and knowledge of where to locate
the web services it needs to contact.  It can obtain
these from several locations.  See
.Xr eucalyptus-admin 7
for more information.
